Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
JULY 31. 2015
Five found dead inside apartment!
Read the latest details!
We go now to Mexico.
where there has been outrage
and protests over the murder
of a photojournalist.
Hundreds took to the streets
throughout the country.
demanding justice for their colleague
and the four women murdered alongside him.
Both Nadia and Rubén
had reported being threatened
by the governor of Veracruz.
Rubén Espinosa Becerril had made public
that he was the target of threats.
which is why he moved
from the state of Veracruz to Mexico City.
NARVARTE. MEXICO CITY
STATE-SANCTIONED MURDER
A Colombian woman.
a cosmetology student.
and their housekeeper were also murdered.
INVESTIGATION CONTINUES
A potato peeler. electrical cords.
and packing tape were used in the attack.
The victims were killed
by a shot to the head.
Each of the victims
had a nine-millimeter caliber
gunshot wound to the head.
Authorities have suggested robbery
as a motive. but could not tell the press
what had been stolen from the apartment
where the murders took place.
We still don't know what was stolen.
IN BROAD DAYLIGHT: THE NARVARTE CASE
The third victim was a housekeeper
from the State of Mexico.
NAUCALPAN. STATE OF MEXICO
GABRIELA MEJÍA
ALEJANDRA'S DAUGHTER
ARLETH NEGRETE
YOUR MEMORY IS LIFE
#JU5TICE
Congrats!
Lex just told me you got a nose job.
Now you're gonna finally be
a hot bitch like us!
INDIRA ALFARO
YESENIA'S MOM
#FRIENDS #LOVEYOU
Following the crime.
the murderers stole this red Mustang.
owned by a Colombian woman
by the name of Mile Virginia Martín.
She was known
to her roommates as "Nicole."
They didn't know
what she did for a living.
LARRY MARTÍN
MILE'S BROTHER
ANGIE MARTÍN
MILE'S SISTER
One of the murderers fled the scene
in the Colombian woman's sports car.
BEING COLOMBIAN IS NOT A CRIME
#JU5TICE
On Monday. friends and family members
paid their last respects
to the Mexican journalist
murdered in the capital.
a city he had fled to
after receiving threats in Veracruz.
Rubén. my dear brother.
I found the courage to speak here today
because it's what you would've wanted.
It's what you fought for.
And you died a warrior.
PATRICIA ESPINOSA
RUBÉN'S SISTER
Everyone knows how tough Veracruz can be
if you criticize
Javier Duarte's administration.
I had to leave
because I was being threatened.
NICOLÁS TAVIRA
PHOTOJOURNALIST
JAVIER DUARTE
GOVERNOR OF VERACRUZ. 2010-2016
LAND AND LIBERTY
I swear I will faithfully
and patriotically carry out
my duties as governor.
which the people have bestowed upon me.
NOÉ ZAVALETA
JOURNALIST
I hereby appoint
Arturo Bermúdez Zurita
as secretary of public safety.
ARTURO BERMÚDEZ ZURITA
EX-SECRETARY OF PUBLIC SAFETY. VERACRUZ
Be the ambassadors of everything we do
so that the community we serve
will once again put their faith
in the state police.
MISSING
-PEACE BETWEEN PEOPLE
-PRISONERS
PROCESO
VERACRUZ. STATE WITHOUT LAW
Every day. we see more and more evidence
that there's no justice here.
There is no justice. no rule of law.
There are no state institutions.
In this state. fear prevails.
Lies prevail.
Take off your riot gear
and get over here. motherfucker!
We are workers!
My name is Nadia Vera.
We will hold Governor Javier Duarte
and his entire cabinet accountable
if anything happens to us.
To anyone involved in these movements.
That includes students.
academics. and everyday citizens.
We started to see a surge
in the number of disappearances in 2010.
once Javier Duarte took office.
The state police took him.
and we haven't heard from him since.
We are here in the name of all the mothers
who have lost their loved ones.
Government officials. do your jobs.
We need to do something
because we can't raise children here.
knowing they are going to be kidnapped.
MIRTHA PÉREZ
NADIA'S MOM
-They were taken alive!
-We want them returned alive!
I THINK… THEREFORE.
THEY DISAPPEAR ME!
The violence is getting worse.
and we're starting to worry
because it turns out
we're exactly what they need.
We can't forget our friends
who've been killed for speaking the truth.
So we have to cover our faces
when we go out.
Here. you're seen as a commodity.
If you're a woman.
they kidnap you for sex trafficking.
If you're a student.
they put you to work as a hit man.
OIL BELONGS TO MEXICO
PEMEX IS OURS
Disappearances are becoming
all too common.
Same with murders and kidnappings.
Down with Peña!
FRIENDS OF NADIA AND RUBÉN
All we wanted was a peaceful protest.
As soon as the cops
started beating demonstrators.
I ran into this photojournalist.
and I asked him to take pictures.
Because this photographer
came over and started taking photos.
this made the police stop
what they were doing.
I was detained by undercover officers.
They beat me and took me away.
and I was put
in a patrol car all by myself.
They'd been ordered to bring us all in
so they could ID us.
It was an enforced disappearance.
I was never booked in.
They left me on the side of the road.
But two of the women in our group
were taken to the San José station.
The police made them strip naked
and made them do
the typical exercises like squats.
They humiliate women like that
because they treat us
like the spoils of war.
I kept snapping photos.
and this guy from the Veracruz government
grabbed me
and told me to stop or I'd end up
like my colleague Regina Martínez.
LEOPOLDO MALDONADO
LAWYER/DIRECTOR. ARTICLE 19
JUSTICE FOR REGINA MARTÍNEZ
Murderers!
DEFENDING YOUR MEMORY
JUSTICE FOR REGINA MARTÍNEZ
JUSTICE FOR MOISÉS SÁNCHEZ
YOUR SILENCE DOESN'T FOOL US
-Miguel Ángel López.
-Justice!
-Misael López Solana.
-Regina Martínez.
-Justice!
-Guillermo Luna Varela.
JUSTICE FOR GOYO
-Yolanda Ordaz.
-Justice!
-Gabriel Huge Córdova.
-Esteban Rodríguez.
-Justice!
-Víctor Manuel Báez Chino.
-Gregorio Jiménez.
-Justice!
We'd like to take a moment
to respectfully acknowledge
our friends in the press…
DO YOUR JOBS
#WEWANTHIMALIVE
We are now living
in a state of total violence.
where it is a danger
and a crime to be young.
Here. we're treated
as if we are the problem
since we're the ones getting in the way
of the government and the cartels.
JAIR GONZÁLEZ RUIZ
NADIA VERA'S FRIEND
FIGHT
RESIST
I PLANT YOUR HEART
IN THIS NOTEBOOK…
Rubén. tell us.
what brought you to leave Veracruz?
I had to leave
because I was being threatened.
It happened right after
the attack on the college students.
It was brutal.
The attackers even used machetes.
IGNACIO CÓRDOBA
SURVIVOR
Can you check on these guys. please?
His injuries are the worst.
Don't you have families?
This vicious attack was carried out
by ten men armed with guns.
machetes. bats. and sticks.
They beat and stabbed these young men
with machetes
while the victims
were celebrating a birthday.
We are holding
both Governor Javier Duarte de Ochoa
and Arturo Bermúdez Zurita.
secretary of public safety. responsible.
We found a group of young men
who had been beaten.
-They claim they were refused assistance.
-No. it's just the protocol is different.
This isn't the first time.
In Coatzacoalcos. police have been accused
of abducting young people.
Whole families have been silenced.
It's not the first time the police--
It's easy to point fingers.
We are doing our jobs.
The Prosecutor's Office is investigating.
The students claim they were preparing
food for poor children.
But their neighbors say
they were having a wild party.
It's not my place to say.
But I can assure you.
my team played no role in this incident.
This one morning.
I saw someone watching me.
I didn't think it was a big deal.
so I headed to work. like usual.
When I left my house. there were three men
on the corner.
next to a cab with the engine running.
I saw one of them snap a photo
and gesture to me as if to say.
"What are you looking at?"
As I walked past them.
they came towards me
and knocked into me.
-They wanted you to know they were there.
-Yeah.
-And that they were coming for you.
-Correct.
Given the current situation.
we can't take these attacks
and threats lightly
because there's no telling
what could happen.
MEXICO CITY
This has taken a toll
on me psychologically. emotionally.
as well as financially.
Enough already
with the martyrs and heroes.
We have to remember that we are human
and we can't fix everything overnight.
And that we can do more alive than dead.
ALEJANDRO MELÉNDEZ
PHOTOJOURNALIST
APARTMENT FOR RENT
3 ROOMS
We will hold Governor Javier Duarte
and his entire cabinet accountable
if anything happens to us.
To anyone involved in these movements.
That includes students.
academics. and everyday citizens.
We want to stress the fact
that the state is completely responsible
if anything happens to us.
Because they are the ones
having us silenced.
#JUSTICE FOR THE 5
President Enrique Peña Nieto addressed
the multiple homicide in Narvarte.
The authorities and prosecutors
remain fully committed
to investigating the murders
and apprehending those responsible.
The governor of Mexico City
said that they will pursue
all lines of investigation.
We will stop at nothing.
HÉCTOR PÉREZ RIVERA
ATTORNEY FOR THE VICTIMS
Rodolfo Fernando Ríos Garza.
Mexico City Prosecutor's Office.
JOURNALIST KILLER
First. we have to wait
for all the facts to come in.
This is not being handled
by the Veracruz government.
It's being overseen by an administration
that belongs to another political party.
I can't reveal too much information.
but the events that took place
had nothing to do with journalism.
Rubén wasn't being targeted.
THEY CANNOT KILL THE TRUTH
Rubén Manuel Espinosa Becerril
was identified by his family.
They confirmed that he had returned
to the capital
to pursue new opportunities
as a professional photographer.
like he had done in Veracruz.
Our fellow reporter--
-Let's maintain order.
-He didn't just leave Veracruz.
He fled.
And he told everyone
that Governor Javier Duarte
should be blamed
if anything happened to him.
What do you have to say about that?
All I can say is--
All right. look.
We're obviously looking
at all lines of investigation.
What worries us most
is that this Prosecutor's Office
and this administration
continue to protect the murderers.
LAWYERS OF THE VICTIMS
A video shows
the alleged perpetrators fleeing the scene
of the multiple homicide in Narvarte.
The three men who fled this apartment.
following the deaths of five people.
have been identified.
arrested. and taken into custody.
The first. holding the suitcase.
is Daniel Pacheco Gutiérrez.
a chef at a hotel
in the south of the city.
Forensics found a fingerprint.
When we checked it against the database
at the Mexico City Prosecutor's Office.
we got a match.
Pacheco Gutiérrez
has previously served sentences
for robbery and rape.
His name is Daniel Pacheco Gutiérrez.
and he gave up his accomplices.
He identified the murderers
from a photo lineup.
The man who stole the car
was Abraham Torres Tranquilino.
a former Mexico City police officer.
Abraham Torres Tranquilino.
He's an ex-police officer.
His name came up in 2011
when he faced charges of torture.
He and a group of officers held the head
of a criminal underwater in Tepito.
One of the victims knew
at least one of the murderers.
In the center of the photo. you can see
the Colombian woman. Mile Virginia Martín.
And to the right.
Abraham Torres Tranquilino.
one of the men accused of her murder.
The Mexico City Prosecutor's Office
announced
they have arrested
one César Omar Martínez.
alleged to be the third perpetrator
in the multiple homicide in Narvarte.
He was the last to leave the scene.
He can be seen crossing the street
wearing a white T-shirt.
His name is César Omar Martínez Zendejas.
He is 32 years old
and lives in Mexico City.
The Mexico City Prosecutor's Office
maintains just three people
were involved in the murder.
EDMUNDO GARRIDO. DEPUTY PROSECUTOR
MEXICO CITY. 2012-2017
All we ask for is that justice be served
and that they don't get away with it.
The best-case scenario
would be if they said.
"We don't want to investigate."
or. "We're incapable of investigating."
NARVARTE CASE
ÓSCAR DANIEL ORNELAS
LAWYER AND EXPERT IN FORENSICS
SAMANTHA OLIVARES CANALES
FORENSIC PSYCHOLOGIST
TILEMY SANTIAGO G.
SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGIST. CRIMINOLOGIST
Ciro in the Morning.
The news program with the biggest
and best radio audience in the country.
What I have here is the statement
from Daniel Pacheco Gutiérrez.
Now. I'm going to read it as written
without making any comments.
"It is my intention
to state that I admit to. in part.
the charges made against me."
"The events occurred
in the following manner."
'What's up. Daniel?
Let's go bang la Colocha.'"
"He was referring
to a Colombian woman named Nicole."
"After ten minutes.
a pale. overweight lady came in."
"She went to the kitchen
and started cleaning."
"While this was happening. I was talking
to the girl Nicole had brought out.
asking her if we were going to get busy."
"Meaning if we were going to have sex."
"She said yes
and that it would cost me 1.800 pesos."
"Meanwhile. Omar.
Abraham. the Colombian woman.
the man with a beard. and the other girl
were all snorting cocaine."
WERE USING COCAINE
"It wasn't until Sunday around 2:00 p.m.
that I heard on the news
that several people had been killed
in Narvarte.
one of whom was a journalist."
Thanks to this statement.
the authorities now know
that there were frequent get-togethers
inside the apartment
and that people would often come and go.
The culprits went to the apartment
looking for sex.
-That's right.
-The girls were prostitutes.
"WE WENT FOR SEX"
Daniel Pacheco Gutiérrez's statement.
You heard it right here this morning.
Toronto University's Citizen Lab confirmed
another espionage attempt using Pegasus.
It was against Karla Micheel Salas Ramírez
and David Peña Rodríguez.
the attorneys working
on the Narvarte multiple homicide case.
ENRIQUE PEÑA NIETO
PRESIDENT OF MEXICO
Traces of drugs were found
at the crime scene.
In Nadia's room. investigators found
a substance in an ashtray
later identified as marijuana.
This supports the theory
that the multiple homicide
was drug related.
It suggests that
the crime was drug related.
MIGUEL ÁNGEL MANCERA
GOVERNOR 2012-2018
Inside the suitcase
seen carried by this man
were several kilos of cocaine
packaged in what are known as bricks.
This appears to be the motive
behind the multiple homicide in Narvarte.
The authorities now know
that the perpetrators were carrying
several kilos of cocaine
that they'd stolen
from the Colombian woman.
CLIENT DETAILS
OMAR - OFFICE
DISC 1
DAMAGED. POOR QUALITY. AND TAKEN AT NIGHT
STATEMENT OF PROBABLE CULPRIT(S)
WHY DIDN'T YOU INVITE ME. JACKASS?
I'LL TEXT YOU WHEN I GET HOME. MAN.
I'M HEADING OUT NOW. 2:13 P.M.
FRIDAY. 2:13 P.M.
-IT'S BETTER NOW.
-TAKE CARE. HONEY.
2:13 P.M.
THAT'S GOOD. MA.
ENTRANCE
NO PARKING
1) 2:06 P.M. - THE SUBURBAN PASSES BY
2) 2:07 P.M. - OFFICE CALLS ABRAHAM
WHATSAPP CHAT HISTORY WITH BRUNO
"Okay. here are the details."
"The man's name is Roberto."
"He's staying at the Eurosuites Hotel."
"He believes he's contacted you directly."
INSIDE THE CARD IT SAYS.
"HAPPY BIRTHDAY.
BEST WISHES. JUNE 13. 2015."
This afternoon 17 women
were rescued from a sex-trafficking ring.
"Remember to text me
as soon as you get there."
"Let me know when they've paid
and that everything is all right."
"When you leave.
just make the deposit. like always."
YESS: HE PAID.
DAN: HE'LL PAY YOU 1.600 PESOS
AND 100 USD.
DAN: GO DEPOSIT RIGHT AWAY. PLEASE.
DAN: CONFIRM PAYMENT
DEATH IS NOT YET A PARTY
ABRAHAM - PILLO - DUY - JORDAN
RIVER - STORM - ALFA
STORM
BERMÚDEZ. FROM BUREAUCRAT
TO "CAPTAIN STORM"
STORM
At GPR. our agents complete
the best training
to offer you professional
and complete protection.
FIGHT
RESIST
It's been almost seven years now
since five people were murdered
in an apartment
in Narvarte in Mexico City.
Today. the lawyers posted a video
stating that in 22 of the case files.
incriminating information has been lost.
There are more people involved.
-Mancera. what of the Narvarte case?
-What?
-Were you with the press?
-Yes.
We've already talked to the press.
When will you fix
your rotten Prosecutor's Office?
You're useless!
Misuse of public resources
and organized crime
are among the charges
in the arrest warrant
against Javier Duarte.
Governor of Veracruz.
The charges include the creation
of 33 shell companies
used in the acquisition of real estate.
THE HEARING WAS BECAUSE OF MY COMPLAINTS
MIGUEL ÁNGEL YUNES. GOVERNOR OF VERACRUZ
PHOTOJOURNALIST KILLED IN NARVARTE
NO TO SILENCE
NO MORE FEMICIDES
OR JOURNALISTS KILLED
WE THANK THE FAMILIES OF MILE.
YESENIA. ALEJANDRA. NADIA. AND RUBÉN
FOR ALLOWING US TO JOIN THEM
IN THEIR SEARCH FOR TRUTH AND JUSTICE.
YOU HAVE OUR SUPPORT AND ADMIRATION.
Subtitle translation by: Meredith Cannella